# FORT: A DeFi Development and Application System with Unlimited Liquidity

> James Zhao, September 9, 2021

---

## History of DeFi

Decentralized finance, as known as DeFi, is the fastest growing application in the blockchain world and it has found a real demand. The history of DeFi can be traced back to the early days of orderbook-based on-chain transactions, as well as peer-to-peer lending. Some applications gained attention around 2017, but due to the extremely high cost of on-chain brokering and the lack of a decentralized oracle, this group of projects did not grow. Instead, decentralized exchanges (e.g., Uniswap) based on the AMM mechanism and lending protocols (e.g., Compound, MakerDAO) based on liquidity pools and asset prices, grew rapidly and led to the wave of DeFi in 2020. Because this type of project better solves the fundamental contradiction of DeFi: lack of on-chain liquidity.

However, whether it is AMM or liquidity pools, the solution to liquidity problems is at the expense of the seller’s flexibility: the seller needs to fix his own trading strategy and bear the fluctuations in the external market. Once the price is favorable to the seller, the buyer opts out of the deal. Once there is arbitrage, the buyers flock in. The seller has no choice but hope for subsidies from mining and commission or interest rate equalization. Although this asymmetric design temporarily alleviates the lack of on-chain liquidity, there are the following problems in the long run.

Firstly, a large amount of assets is occupied and staked in DeFi protocols but only a small number of transactions are supported, resulting in a waste of resources. Most of the total value locked (TVL) is still rushing to liquidity mining for profits. In the long term, the lower the capital utilization rate, the greater the loss of intrinsic value of the DeFi products. Secondly, the core variables, such as asset price and interest rate, are related to the size of the pool, which is easy to be arbitraged on the one hand, and it is difficult to attract many trading and lending users when the pool is not large enough on the other hand. Moreover, TVL of various DeFi products cannot be shared, resulting in the composability of DeFi products only at the technical calling level, rather than liquidity sharing.

This kind of liquidity created at the expense of one party’s choice is not a perfect idea under a decentralized architecture. Instead of allowing the seller to make asymmetric sacrifices, it is better to completely erase this asymmetry. The system only allows a completely symmetric buyer, and the seller is the system itself. This idea complies with the decentralized game spirit of the blockchain. Everyone is in the same position to play the game, whether it is Bitcoin or Ethereum. Each participant only needs to burn system tokens in consideration to get the financial products they want, and the income of the financial products will be settled by minting system tokens. It frees us from the traditional financial trading models and forms a new financial paradigm which not only ensures composability but also renders all DeFi products equivalent to linear transformations in the same framework, with uniform programmability.